---
title: How I ended-up here
authors:
  - Victor Rybynok
datePublished: '2023-02-01'
dateUpdated: '2023-02-20'
description:
  The story of how this site came into existence and the reasons behind its
  various technical decisions such as selected framework, components library and
  styling approach.
ogImage: /static/blog/how-i-ended-up-here/front-end-doom.jpg
categories:
  - fun
---

<figure>
  <Image
    src="/static/blog/how-i-ended-up-here/front-end-doom.jpg"
    alt=""
    priority
  />
  <figcaption></figcaption>
  <figcaption>
    <>Front-end Doom</>
    <>[[origin](https://twitter.com/aravindameewal1/status/1362587906661961730)]</>
  </figcaption>
</figure>

## Priming

Last time I had to stay at home during Christmas holiday was the first year of
<abbr title="COrona VIrus Disease">COVID</abbr>&nbsp;– 2020. That Christmas, I
decided to use an accidental spare time to upgrade myself with some Typescript
and React. This decision has made my holiday interesting and created a good
balance between codding nights and family time. Later that year my long-term C++
project got shutdown and the new Typescript skills have proven to be a very
useful addition in my next project.

This year for a number of other reasons
(<abbr title="COrona VIrus Disease">COVID</abbr> consequences?) I also had to
skip Christmas travel to parents and stay home. This time I decided to build
myself a website&nbsp;– a blog and a notes collection, a professional history
board, and generally a place where I could keep my thoughts organised,
searchable and shared with the rest of the world.

Initially, the intention was not to do any codding and to focus exclusively on
the content. For that purpose my inclination was to use one of the (many)
available static site generators (SSG) and host it on GitHub Pages. Well, the
chosen <abbr title="Static Site Generator">SSG</abbr> software had to be open
source, have a reasonable architecture and use a technology stack that I am
already familiar with or interested to learn in the near feature. Thus, when
time comes I would have more options of extending and improving my site than
just relying on 3rd party mods and plugins.

## To Hugo or not to Hugo

[Jekyll](https://jekyllrb.com/) is an obvious candidate for GitHub Pages and it
seems to be the most popular <abbr title="Static Site Generator">SSG</abbr>
software. I did not spend much time looking into it, mostly because at the
moment I am not interested in diving into Ruby.

[Hugo](https://gohugo.io/) was the second
<abbr title="Static Site Generator">SSG</abbr> software that caught my
attention. I am interested in learning Go and I am already using couple of
excellent software packages implemented in that language –
[rclone](https://rclone.org/) and [restic](https://restic.net/). Thus, after
spending some time reading about Hugo in different publications on the web and
Hugo documentation itself, I got convinced that it seemed to be the right way to
move forward with my website.

I really liked the idea that Hugo is a single native executable rather than
thousands inter-twisted scripts and its repository looks nicely structured and
well maintained. Hugo community also looks active and there are many
good-looking [themes](https://themes.gohugo.io/) available for free.

The major perceived Hugo disadvantage was that if in the future I need to add
more interactivity to the site pages, I would have to use some plugins or to
write JavaScript code embedded into Go template pages myself. I have some
previous experience in writing untyped browser-side JavaScript and using
HTML-template languages. It is not great experience - especially if you coming
from compiled statically-typed languages and desktop GUI applications.

Thus, after deciding to give Hugo a go, I went through some of the available
schemes and picked [Tufte Hugo](https://github.com/shawnohare/hugo-tufte) that
is based on [Tufte-CSS](https://github.com/edwardtufte/tufte-css), which is in
turn based on [Tufte-LaTeX](https://tufte-latex.github.io/tufte-latex/). Since
my original background is academic and some of my future blog posts are likely
to be somewhat mathematical, minimalistic Tufte style seems to be a good choice.

Hugo itself and Tufte schema installation were as simple as Hugo documentation
advertises. I am quite picky when it comes to the software user and developer
experiences. So, after installation and initial configuration, I naturally went
into generated code and theme templates for possible tweaks and customisations.
I immediately disliked that the template-generated HTML files were neither
prettified nor minified. Thus, Hugo needs an external prettier to read generated
files comfortably and minifier to properly publish them.

I initialised [yarn](https://yarnpkg.com/) in Hugo site repository, installed
[prettier](https://prettier.io/) and configured my
[Emacs](https://emacsredux.com/blog/2022/06/09/forever-emacs/) to prettify HTML
files on save. Then, attempting to open Tufte Hugo HTML output file and
prettify-save it has failed with prettier parsing errors. The template has
generated `<p>` tags inside other `<p>` tags which is
[illegal](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/p) (see
"Permitted content"). This issue can be easily fixed by modifying Hugo template.
However, that made me thinking that Hugo template implementers are not
practising linters or other code sanitising techniques.

Hugo documentation has a section on [Hugo Pipes](https://gohugo.io/hugo-pipes/)
that in theory should allow linting, minification, CSS purging and other pre-
and post-processing. However, it seems that those pipes are not used
consistently across the community. Also, Hugo Pipes rely on external tools that
makes it no longer a single Go-compiled executable.

## Back to Next.js

Thus, in my Hugo workflow I would still need to rely on Node.js and NPM to do
repository-local package management and to perform those tasks that Hugo itself
does not perform. At this point I started to realise that focusing on just
content is not an option and I need to do a good deal of coding to get a site
that I like. In this case Hugo is, probably, becoming an unnecessary overhead
for me. Instead, I should use one of the Node.js-based
<abbr title="Static Site Generator">SSG</abbr> frameworks with all their
packages maintenance chores and infinitely deep `node_modules`.

<figure>
  <Image
    src="/static/blog/how-i-ended-up-here/heaviest-node-modules.png"
    alt=""
    priority
  />
  <figcaption>
    <>Heaviest Objects In The Universe: node_modules</>
    <>[[origin](https://javascript.plainenglish.io/node-js-esm-npm-yarn-deep-dive-adda15dabce)]</>
  </figcaption>
</figure>

After spending a few days on Hugo I was back to choosing another
<abbr title="Static Site Generator">SSG</abbr> software. The other two main
options I considered were [Gatsby](https://www.gatsbyjs.com/) and
[Hexo](https://hexo.io/). My previous experience with React frameworks was with
[CRA](https://create-react-app.dev/) and then [Next.js](https://nextjs.org/). In
contrast to those, Gatsby has a large number of plugins and themes. Gatsby has
slightly more requirements on the project structure and feels somewhat more
opinionated - such as internal use of GraphQL to fetch data. Although it is
possible that if I spent some more time on Gatsby, I would like it more,
currently Next.js fits better my mental models and previous experience.

Hexo was the last option that I looked at. It seems to be easy to use and also
has extensive plugins and themes collection. Its documentation is a bit chaotic
for my taste and community seems to be mostly Chinese-speaking. Unfortunately, I
do not speak Chinese (not yet ;) and their site and documentation are full of
advertisement banners that I quite dislike. Thus, the decision was made to go
back to the comfort of Next.js

My main takeout from various <abbr title="Static Site Generator">SSG</abbr>
software packages investigation is that regardless of what I am going to use
eventually, there are lots of schemes and plugins out there available to get
ideas, inspirations, colour palettes and fonts! Also, many techniques, such as
dark-light mode switching or styling are transferable across frameworks.

## Components

Since I already use Next.js at work for building embedded web user interfaces
(WUI) for IoT-alike systems, there are a number of related decisions already
made&nbsp;– such as the project structure or using the modern
[yarn](https://yarnpkg.com/) for package management&nbsp;– I am happy with how
it works and handles monorepos.

### Zendesk Garden

At work I am mostly focusing on devices operation logic and data, trying to
avoid styling and design decisions and much as possible. Some time ago I looked
into available components-based React frameworks and settled on
[Zendesk Garden](https://garden.zendesk.com/) as an instrument of choice for
<abbr title="Web User Interface">WUI</abbr> building.

I like aesthetics of Zendesk Garden design system, its clearly defined design
principles and the language as well as its extensive and evolving components
library. It is built around [styled components](https://styled-components.com/)
(SC) for styling (view layer or presentation logic). Additionally, it has
[Tailwind CSS]() design tokens that seamlessly blend tailwind utility classes
into Zendesk Garden <abbr title="Styled Components">SC</abbr> design.

On the other hand side Zendesk Garden library is large (i.e. when compiled from
source code&nbsp;– individual components on NPM are more manageable) and has
many external dependencies. While it is a good choice for building web
applications with rich user experience, on-par with desktop GUI applications, I
felt that it might be an overkill for a small personal site.

I was previously avoiding using tailwind as have not had a good case to use
utility classes instead of <abbr title="Styled Components">SC</abbr>. With a
personal site that is mostly content-driven and low maintenance, tailwind seemed
like a good choice. Tailwind native design system is also excellent, so I
initially decided to use it on its own and avoid installing Zendesk Garden
components. Tailwind integrates well with Next.js and as a former
[Bootstrap](https://getbootstrap.com/) user, after basic configuration, tailwind
made me feel at home.

I quickly prototyped my future site "about" page in tailwind, stealing some
design ideas from the mentioned above Tufte Hugo schema.

From the very beginning I wanted to have a seamless dark and light modes
switching as this feature looks interesting and it is becoming a standard
requirement in modern websites and browsers.
[next-themes](https://github.com/pacocoursey/next-themes) seemed to be the right
colour theme abstraction library for Next.js applications. It only took a few
minutes to integrate next-themes with tailwind&nbsp;– all are working
out-of-the-box.

The dark-light toggle has to have three states - `light`, `dark` and `system`.
`system` is an important default option that allows browser to select the
preferred palette based on the operating system GUI settings. As I do not like
three states toggle types, I decided to implement a dropdown (aka popup) menu
activated from an icon button with the three choices.

Long time ago I tried to implement a dropdown menu from scratch (long before
Typescript and React). I still remember how difficult is to implement a proper
pop-up or even a button that works consistently from mouse, keyboard and
touchscreen interfaces. My hope was that with modern web standards it should be
much easier than it was in the past. I was wrong. My instincts took me to
Zendesk Garden dropdown menu source code to copy'n'paste and simplify it in my
site code. What a monstrous code it was, I had no idea how complex such "little"
component can be.

Admittedly, Zendesk Garden made its menu component as generic as possible to
meet many use cases with a singe simple interface. So, I decided to use Zendesk
Garden dropdown menu component from NPM as a dependency without trying to
simplify it or to merge it with my site code. I got it switching my site dark
and light themes within minutes. However, it quickly became apparent that
Zendesk Garden Components themselves are not implementing themes switching. It
seems to be one of the popular user requests at
[Zendesk Support](https://support.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/4408830934938-Is-there-a-dark-mode-for-Zendesk-Support)
forum. Previously, I have not attempted to use themes switching with Zendesk
Garden components.

Thus, although Zendesk Garden dropdown menu does next-themes switching well, it
does not switch its own theme making it look alien in dark modes. Investigating
this issue further, I discovered that Zendesk Garden components are often using
direct references to the colour palette (such as `white` for the background in
buttons) instead of using semantic colours (such as `button-background-invert`)
which makes it difficult to adjust colour theme in a consistent way (i.e.
without calling `black` colour `white`).

Another problem that I realised from this implementation is that Zendesk Garden
components rely on <abbr title="Styled Components">SC</abbr> themes for their
colours selection. It means that in
<abbr title="Static Site Generator">SSG</abbr> deployment there is going to be a
blink of server-rendered colours before browser logic changes them to the
locally selected theme. Except doing all rendering client-side or having server
site rendering (SSR) deployment, the only solution to this colour blink problem
I can think of is CSS variables. That is what next-themes recommends and
tailwind uses.

### Headless, Radix UI and Styling

After failing with Zendesk Garden, I looked at Tailwind CSS components solution,
[Headless UI](https://headlessui.com/)&nbsp;– a small set of well designed
components tailored for styling with tailwind. I did not spent much time on this
library as after Zendesk Garden it felt a bit limited. Also, I found that
although I like styling web pages look and layout with tailwind, it does not
feel like a right tool for styling UI components&nbsp;– it is hard to beat
experience that <abbr title="Styled Components">SC</abbr> provides.

It occurred to me that there must be some similar "headless" library for
<abbr title="Styled Components">SC</abbr> or bare CSS and I googled. A
[medium article](https://medium.com/@nirbenyair/headless-components-in-react-and-why-i-stopped-using-ui-libraries-a8208197c268)
by Nir Ben-Yair was an eyes opener. There is a whole world of the headless React
components that I was unaware of! Or, better to say&nbsp;– unaware of the term
_headless components_.

What Nir's article made me realise is that I already used headless React
components. Zendesk Garden calls their headless components
[React Containers](https://zendeskgarden.github.io/react-containers). Also,
previously at work I had some experience with
[React-aria](https://react-spectrum.adobe.com/react-aria/). I did not like it
then as it was a bit too low level for my mindset. However, after looking at
React-aria from a perspective of headless components, they started to make more
sense. So, I deiced to try them once again.

As with my previous experience, React-aria was a lot harder to use than Headless
UI - especially for menu components. It feels more suitable for designing new
component libraries from scratch, although with a good predefined structure and
well written design guidelines. Also, at the time of writing it had some issues
with modern React version and insufficient Typescript support. For my small site
I really did not want to develop and maintain a new components library. I wanted
something in between Headless UI and React-aria&nbsp;– customisable, opinionated
and headless.

Nir's medium article suggests [Radix UI](https://www.radix-ui.com/) and
[Reach UI](https://reach.tech/) as the first two headless libraries of (his)
choice. Superficially, Radix UI looked better and provided more components. So,
my next attempt to implement light-dark themes selector was based on Radix UI.

Radix UI felt intuitive from the beginning. Its documentation is good and the
library seemed to have the right balance between customisation and use
simplicity. The library components documentation demonstrates two styling
approaches: one with plain CSS and another with
[Stitches](https://stitches.dev/)&nbsp;– yet another CSS-in-JS library. Stitches
looked similar to <abbr title="Styled Components">SC</abbr> and I decided to
give it a try to stay close to the library's official examples when doing
components styling.

Unlike <abbr title="Styled Components">SC</abbr>, Stitches internally rely on
CSS variables for colours. Thus, it supported client-side themes switching
out-of-the-box. It did not take long to implement light-dark themes site
selector using Radix UI Dropdown Menu component and Stitches for styling. The
standard HTML button focus do not behave consistently in browsers with keyboard
and touchscreen interfaces. Therefore many component libraries implement their
own version of buttons. Surprisingly, while having a lot of complex components
Radix UI is missing basic buttons. Instead I used
[react-interactive](https://github.com/rafgraph/react-interactive) library for
implementing menu trigger.

Everything worked well, however I now had three styling solutions&nbsp;– the
plain CSS, Tailwind CSS and Stitches&nbsp;– each with its own theme definition.
Such configuration is not sustainable in a longer term as all themes need to be
adjusted manually to fit each other. In terms of the design language and
aesthetics I liked tailwind the most. So, I decided to re-use its theme in
Stitches. Browsing GitHub Stitches source code and issues for its theme
implementation details, I discovered that Stitches is slowly sliding into
[abandonware](https://github.com/stitchesjs/stitches/issues/1096).

Abandonware libraries are not good for a small personal projects. Unless some
bigger company takes over Stitches, I would not have resources to maintain it
myself. Therefore, I decided to go back to
<abbr title="Styled Components">SC</abbr> even if it means that I have to
manually style Radix UI rather that adopting its documentation examples
directly. Yet again I rewrote my light-dark selector with Radis UI and
<abbr title="Styled Components">SC</abbr>.

## CSS Variables

Things have finally started to fit together - Radix UI, Tailwind CSS and
<abbr title="Styled Components">SC</abbr> seemed to work for me.

Usually, in my web projects I am trying to avoid CSS variables whenever possible
as they are not statically typed, not easily refactorable and it is difficult to
validate their usage correctness. However, from Stitches experiments I found a
good way of using CSS variables within CSS-in-JS: it is possible to keep theme
variables in JavaScript objects while storing their values in CSS variables.

The idea is to use JavaScript object reflections capabilities to construct and
map CSS variables from object members. Consider the following JavaScript objects
that might be used as theme objects in
<abbr title="Styled Components">SC</abbr>:

```ts
const defaultLightCssVars = {
  colors: {
    primary: {
      300: '#2563eb',
      400: '#3b82f6',
    },
    danger: {
      300: '#fca5a5',
      400: '#f87171',
    },
  },
};

const defaultDarkCssVars = {
  colors: {
    primary: {
      300: '#2563eb',
      400: '#3b82f6',
    },
    danger: {
      300: '#dc2626',
      400: '#ef4444',
    },
  },
};
```

If those objects are used as <abbr title="Styled Components">SC</abbr> theme
directly, then theme switching in <abbr title="Static Site Generator">SSG</abbr>
deployment would either require client-side rendering (CSR) or suffer a short
theme blink if a server-rendered theme does not match the theme selected at
client side.

However, instead of using above <abbr title="Styled Components">SC</abbr> theme
objects directly, they can be processed to generate the following CSS classes:

```css
:root {
  --rh-default-colors-primary-300: #93c5fd;
  --rh-default-colors-primary-400: #60a5fa;
  --rh-default-colors-danger-300: #fca5a5;
  --rh-default-colors-danger-400: #f87171;
}

.dark {
  --rh-default-colors-primary-300: #2563eb;
  --rh-default-colors-primary-400: #3b82f6;
  --rh-default-colors-danger-300: #dc2626;
  --rh-default-colors-danger-400: #ef4444;
}
```

Thus, by adding `dark` class to `:root` element or any of its children elements,
the default light theme can be switched to dark theme. Such switching via
`:root` class can be performed by the next-themes library that is already used
as a part of my stack.

Also, any of the above <abbr title="Styled Components">SC</abbr> theme object
can be converted into the following CSS variable references object:

```ts
const defaultCssVars = {
  colors: {
    primary: {
      300: 'var(--rh-default-colors-primary-300)',
      400: 'var(--rh-default-colors-primary-400)',
    },
    danger: {
      300: 'var(--rh-default-colors-danger-300)',
      400: 'var(--rh-default-colors-danger-400)',
    },
  },
};
```

This CSS variable references object can then be used as
<abbr title="Styled Components">SC</abbr> theme object that uses the selected
client-side theme indirectly by letting browser to substitute CSS variables with
actual values according to the previously defined `:root` and `dark` classes.

In this configuration SSG-produced pages are going to be the same regardless of
the client-selected theme. At the same time such CSS variable references object
is a normal Typescript object that is statically typed and refactorable.
Therefore, this way CSS variables become a developer-friendly and type-safe!

Also, the actual values of colours, fonts, spacing etc. can be extracted from
tailwind theme using its
[resolveConfig](https://tailwindcss.com/docs/configuration#referencing-in-java-script)
function. This way <abbr title="Styled Components">SC</abbr> theme becomes 100%
compatible with the excellent already defined tailwind theme. Thus,
<abbr title="Styled Components">SC</abbr> is used to style Radix UI headless
components and tailwind to style everything else - such as typography or page
layouts.

In the past apart from the plain CSS I used [Less CSS](https://lesscss.org/) and
[SASS](https://sass-lang.com/) for web pages styling. I also used [CSS
Modules](https://github.com/css-modules/css-modules) for styling with local
namespace scopes. In my workflow, combination of Tailwind CSS and
<abbr title="Styled Components">SC</abbr> are significant improvement of the
development experience and productivity over SASS with CSS Modules. However, it
would be great if there was a single universal solution for CSS styling needs.

In my opinion, CSS-in-JS (or more accurately CSS-in-TS) with mostly
ahead-of-time compilation is the future of CSS styling. I am trying to follow
development of a few libraries that are implementing ahead-of-time CSS-in-JS:
[vanilla-extract](https://vanilla-extract.style/),
[linaria](https://linaria.dev/) and [griffel](https://griffel.js.org/). When
those libraries are more mature I may revisit my site styling strategy and
hopefully simplify it.

After light-dark themes and dropdown menu theme selector were working as
expected, the next challenge was _i18n_. From the inception the plan was to make
my site to be available in English and in Russian and, possibly, in some other
languages in the future.

## Internationalisation&nbsp;– i18n

All my previous projects were single language. Some projects had to be designed
with i18n in mind to be able to add more languages in the future. However,
practically I never needed to implement something with actual bi- or
multi-lingual support.

I have done some reading in the past and knew that Next.js should handle i18n
and language switching out-of-the-box. This Next.js feature is called
[Internationalised Routing](https://nextjs.org/docs/advanced-features/i18n-routing)

Internationalised routing facilitates locale detection and selecting a server
route with a required language. The actual language strings mapping and
formatting is done by a third party library. After some more googling and
reading I picked [react-i18next](https://react.i18next.com/) as a first
candidate to try.

Even with the help of Next.js internationalised routing and react-i18next, i18n
functionality was not easy to implement and took me a good few days of
experiments with trials and errors. Eventually, I got it working and re-used my
dark-light theme switching component for languages switching UI.

Next.js [provides](https://nextjs.org/docs/advanced-features/static-html-export)
`next export` command for producing
<abbr title="Static Site Generator">SSG</abbr> output. Soon, after implementing
i18n, I found that `next export` no longer works and I cannot get static HTML
required for <abbr title="Static Site Generator">SSG</abbr> deployment. The
problem is that `next export`
[does not support](https://nextjs.org/docs/advanced-features/static-html-export#unsupported-features)
international routing.

Doing further search around react-i18next community, I discovered Locize blog
[post](https://locize.com/blog/next-i18n-static/) that explains how to implement
SSG-friendly i18n in Next.js without using international routing. The technique
outlined in this post looked doable, although a bit complected for a small
personal site. Before trying to implement this technique, I looked into another
referenced Locize blog [post](https://locize.com/blog/next-13-app-dir-i18n/)
dedicated to <abbr title="Static Site Generator">SSG</abbr> i18n in Next.js
13&nbsp;– as I just started using that version of next.

The <abbr title="Static Site Generator">SSG</abbr> i18n approaches for Next.js
versions pre-13 and post-13 are radically different due to introduction of the
new [app directory](https://beta.nextjs.org/docs/app-directory-roadmap). Next.js
13+ app directory provides many new features such as
[Server Components](https://nextjs.org/blog/next-13#server-components) or
[Data Fetching](https://nextjs.org/blog/next-13#data-fetching) that I would like
to use in my further developments. However, currently app directory is still in
its beta stage and I have very little experience with it.

Implementing <abbr title="Static Site Generator">SSG</abbr> i18n using
conventional Next.js pages directory and then in the future porting to app
directory does not make sense. I am already spending more time than originally
planned on codding. Switching to app directory now would mean spending even more
time for codding. As at the moment I would like to focus more on my site
content, I decided to drop <abbr title="Static Site Generator">SSG</abbr>
deployment for now. It also means dropping hosting on GitHub Pages and switching
to [Vercel](https://vercel.com/) hosting.

After I learn more about Next.js app directory and implement SSG-friendly i18n
as described in the mentioned above Locize blog post,
<abbr title="Static Site Generator">SSG</abbr> deployment should become possible
again. Then I should revisit GitHub Pages hosting.

## Syntax Highlight

The first posts on my new site are likely going to be around software
engineering subjects. Therefore the computer languages semantic text colouring
is desirable. In the world of JavaScript the most popular libraries are
[highlight.js](https://highlightjs.org/) and [prismjs](https://prismjs.com/)

I use Emacs for most of my text editing. I have done some semantic highlight
debugging and tweaking in that editor&nbsp;– mostly for
[cc-mode](https://cc-mode.sourceforge.net/). Many grammar definitions there and
most customisations are regex-based. As the syntax complexity grows, regular
expressions are becoming quite unmaintainable.

From my superficial review of highlight.js and prismjs, highlight.js grammar
definitions seem to be more readable than prismjs which looks regex-based. There
are chances that in the future I would need to correct some grammar for an
already supported language or add some new language. Therefore I picked
highlight.js as a syntax highlighting solution for my site.

It seems that Emacs semantic highlight is
[moving](https://lists.gnu.org/archive/html/emacs-devel/2022-11/msg01443.html)
towards [Tree-sitter](https://tree-sitter.github.io/tree-sitter/). I really like
Tree-sitter languages parsing approach and think that it is the future for the
programming tools such as syntax highlight in modern text editors, on the web
and everywhere else. However, at the moment it looks that there is no
Tree-sitter-based web syntax highlight library ready for production use.

I should revisit Tree-sitter-based web syntax highlight subject after upgrading
to the new Emacs 29+ with the built-in Tree-sitter integration and getting more
experience with it. For now I should focus on highlight.js

It was not difficult to get highlight.js working with Typescript, JavaScript and
JSON syntax following its documentation. As the
[colour themes](https://highlightjs.org/static/demo/) I picked _A 11&nbsp;Y
Light_ for light mode and _Tomorrow Night Blue_ for dark mode. For every theme
highlight.js provides CSS and corresponding SCSS files in its NPM package.
Unfortunately, I found no way to include those files with light-dark theme
switching classes in either plain CSS, <abbr title="Styled Components">SC</abbr>
or Tailwind CSS. The only sensible option was to use SCSS as the following:

```scss
:root {
  @import 'highlight.js/scss/a11y-light.scss';

  code {
    background-color: rgb(0 0 0 / 5%);
    border-radius: theme('borderRadius.sm');
  }

  pre {
    background-color: rgb(0 0 0 / 4%);
  }

  .hljs {
    background-color: transparent;
  }
}

.dark {
  @import 'highlight.js/scss/tomorrow-night-blue.scss';

  code {
    background-color: rgb(0 0 0 / 25%);
  }

  pre {
    background-color: rgb(0 0 0 / 40%);
  }

  .hljs {
    background-color: transparent;
  }
}
```

`hljs` is highlight.js class and `theme()` is Tailwind CSS
[extension](https://tailwindcss.com/docs/functions-and-directives#theme).

Unfortunately, this solution meas that additionally to plain CSS,
<abbr title="Styled Components">SC</abbr> and Tailwind CSS, I would have to use
SASS as well&nbsp;– just for the highlight.js switching support. Fortunately,
Next.js supports SCSS out-of-the-box with no further configuration.

<figure>
  <Image
    src="/static/blog/how-i-ended-up-here/css-anarchy.png"
    alt=""
    priority
  />
  <figcaption>
    <>CSS Anarchy</>
    <>[[origin](https://uxplanet.org/how-it-feels-like-to-style-things-in-2020-54177a93f30d)]</>
  </figcaption>
</figure>

## Conclusion

This post outlined key components of the technology stack used in my (this)
site. It is also my first blog post. In further publications I intend to dive
into some deeper details of the libraries, structures and patterns used when
creating this site.
