---
title: About | Victor Rybynok
dateUpdated: '2023-02-20'
description: About me
---

I prefer not to disclose certain types of information about myself, my family,
or my friends on public internet resources. Therefore, on this page, I will not
provide details of my current employer or location beyond my country of
residence. If you require additional information or my full CV, please contact
me directly via email at v.rybynok@gmail.com.

### Concise Biography

One of my earliest childhood memories, from when I was perhaps 3 or 4 years old,
is of helping my father build a light music box. This was during the time of the
late Soviet Union, where it was difficult to obtain such devices from
electronics shops. My father explained to me what transistors, cascading
amplifiers, and frequency filters were, as well as how to use lacquers to color
incandescent light bulbs. All are still relevant today. Except, colouring
incandescent bulbs - one, would, likely use LED lights for that purpose these
days!

My grandfather was the director of a factory that produced TV sets back in 80th.
He always had some latest cool gadgets in his house, such as
[first personal computers](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pravetz_computers) and
[TV game consoles](https://ru.wikibooks.org/wiki/Советские_телевизионные_игровые_приставки/Фабричные_телеигры).
I used to visit my grandparents during almost every school holiday, and it was
during these visits that I became fascinated with computers. These electronic
machines soon became my passion, my profession, and a lifestyle.

My native language is Russian and when I first started using computers I did not
even know how to read Latin alphabet. Yet, I had a concept of computer program
and [Pravetz 8D](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Oric#Clones) computer manual in
English with examples written in BASIC. I began by coping examples into REPL
console and translating the manual into Russian with a dictionary, word-by-word.
Since I did not know how to pronounce English words correctly I invented my own
pronunciation&nbsp;– some of those words still linger in my accent even after
more than 20 years of living in the UK!

I completed my studies at a physics and mathematics specialized school in Moscow
in 1996, after which I enrolled at the National Research University of
Electronic Technology [MIET](https://eng.miet.ru/), Faculty of Microelectronics
and Technical Cybernetics. My aspirations were to become a computer games
developer. However, at the time there were no specific courses for this field in
Russian universities. As a result, I picked a more general specialisation&nbsp;–
Computer Systems and Networks.

During my studies from 1996 to 2001, I was exposed to a diverse range of
engineering subjects such as analogue and digital electronics, high-frequency
and low-noise systems, network protocols, PCB and microchip design, and
engineering graphics. This period coincided with the dot-com boom, the emergence
of Linux, and the transformation of small game development companies into large
game studios. However, my interests evolved over time and by 2009, I became
fascinated with robotics and brain-computer interfaces. This shift in focus
prompted me to reassess my career aspirations, and I ultimately decided against
pursuing a career as a computer games developer.

{/* In 2001 I moved to the UK to study English language and culture, and
experience live abroad and outside parents house. In 2002 I applied and got
accepted to MSc program in Medical Electronics and Physics in Queen Mary,
University of London. In 2003 I built my first EEG signals amplifier for human
brain analysis, defended my masters thesis and accepted an offer to do PhD in
Biomedial Engineering in City, University of London. My PhD thesis subject was
Dynamic Pulsatile Spectroscopy for Non-Invasive Blood Glucose monitoring.

In 2001, I ventured to the UK to explore the country's language, culture, and
gain independence. Shortly after, I was accepted into the MSc program in Medical
Electronics and Physics at Queen Mary, University of London, where I immersed
myself in the study of biomedical engineering. In 2003, I constructed my first
EEG signals amplifier for human brain activity analysis. After successfully
defending my master's thesis, I received an offer to pursue a PhD in Biomedical
Engineering at City, University of London. My doctoral research revolved around
developing a non-invasive blood glucose monitoring technique that I named
Dynamic Pulsatile Spectroscopy. */}

After completing my undergraduate degree in computer engineering, I moved to the
UK in 2001 to study English language and culture and gain experience living
abroad. The following year, I was accepted into the MSc program in Medical
Electronics and Physics at Queen Mary, University of London. While there, I
built my first EEG signal amplifier for human brain analysis and defended my
masters thesis.

Following my MSc, I was offered a PhD position in Biomedical Engineering at
City, University of London. My research focused on developing Dynamic Pulsatile
Spectroscopy for Non-Invasive Blood Glucose Monitoring, and I defended my thesis
in 2009. I continued working on this research as a Postdoctoral Research
Assistant and then a Research Fellow at City, University of London.

Between 2010 and 2014, UK universities faced a challenging time. The government
ceased providing interest-free student loans, and UK and EU students were
required to pay the same tuition fees as students from other countries.
Additionally, academic research funds were reduced significantly. Despite making
considerable progress in my research, receiving several grants and submitting
two patent applications, the university decided to discontinue my non-invasive
blood glucose monitoring project.

Although I was offered a rolling contract to continue other studies and teaching
in the university, I decided to take a break from academia and pursue a further
career in industry as an Embedded Software Engineer. Despite thinking of myself
as "a programmer who thinks he is a physicist", I felt that my programming
skills needed improvement and that I required experience outside academia. In
2014 I joined a mid-sized scientific instrumentation company in Cambridge as
R&D&nbsp; Software Engineer to work on the interface and control software for
their cutting-edge analytical instruments.

Currently, I reside in Cambridge and am still employed by the same company. Over
the years, I have been presented with numerous opportunities to work on a
diverse range of computer systems, ranging from tiny 8-bit controllers to
real-time network-synchronized sensor arrays. I can now proudly claim that I am
"a physicist who thinks he is a programmer"!
